[native] Introduce delay for getResult requests on failed / aborted tasks (#22431)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/develop/worker-protocol.rst

.. image:: worker-protocol-output-buffers.png
  :width: 600

> Failure Handling

Reviewer: It would be great to also mention the session / config property you showed me that allows to log all HTTP requests as this is helpful for debugging.

Author: Added one more section

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Task failures are reported to the coordinator via TaskStatus and TaskInfo updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Task failures are reported to the coordinator via ``TaskStatus`` and ``TaskInfo`` updates.
```
Nit: Format suggestion, for consistency with the upper part of the page.

When a task failure is discovered, the coordinator aborts all remaining tasks and

> reports a query failure to the client. When a task failure occurs (or an abort

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reports a query failure to the client. When a task failure occurs or an abort
```

> request is received), all further processing stops, and all remaining task output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
request is received, all further processing stops, and all remaining task output
```

is discarded.

> Failed/aborted tasks continue responding to data plane requests as normal to prevent

Reviewer: > continue responding to data plane requests as normal

perhaps, clarify that the responses are empty.

Author: Also mentioned `X-Presto-Buffer-Complete` is equal to `false` to prevent downstream tasks from succeeding

> Failed/aborted tasks continue responding to data plane requests as normal to prevent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Failed or aborted tasks continue responding to data plane requests as normal to prevent
```
Nit: see [Gitlab documentation style guide recommended word list entry for slashes](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide/word_list.html#slashes).

> cascading failures. From the exchange client's point of view, these responses are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cascading failures. To the client, these responses are
```
Suggested rephrasing for shortness and clarity. If "exchange" is important here to distinguish it from another type of client, please include it!

> indistinguishable from those of healthy tasks. To avoid request "bursts", a standard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
indistinguishable from those of healthy tasks. To avoid request bursts, a standard
```

.. image:: worker-protocol-output-buffers.png
  :width: 600

Failure Handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Task failures are reported to the coordinator via ``TaskStatus`` and ``TaskInfo``
updates.

When a task failure is discovered, the coordinator aborts all remaining tasks and
reports a query failure to the client. When a task failure occurs or an abort
request is received, all further processing stops, and all remaining task output
is discarded.

Failed or aborted tasks continue responding to data plane requests as usual to
prevent cascading failures. Because the output is fully discarded upon failure, all
following responses are empty. The ``X-Presto-Buffer-Complete`` header is set to
``false`` to prevent downstream tasks from finishing successfully and producing
incorrect results.

To the client, these responses are indistinguishable from those of healthy tasks.
To avoid request bursts, a standard delay before responding with an empty result
set is applied.

Diagnosing Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> HTTP request logging is extremely helpful when diagnosing protocol related problems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTTP request logging can help to diagnose protocol related problems.
```

Request logging can be enabled through the ``config.properties`` file.

In Presto:

.. code-block:: none

    http-server.log.enabled=true
    http-server.log.path=<request_log_file_path>

In Prestissimo (logs are written to standard log):

.. code-block:: none

    http-server.enable-access-log=true

> By applying simple grep techniques, it is possible to follow a certain protocol interaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use grep to follow a certain protocol interaction.
```
(This is a big answer for a small change, but I wanted to explain why I suggested this change.) 

Technical documentation should not describe something as "simple" or "easy", because "simple" and "easy" are different for different users. For more context, see Gitlab documentation style guide topic [Building Trust](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/documentation/styleguide/#building-trust), and [Don’t say “simply” in your documentation by Jim Fisher](https://blog.knowledgeowl.com/blog/posts/dont-say-simply-jim-fisher/).

Author: Great point. Thank you for explaining.

Reviewer 2: You're welcome! Sometimes I overexplain - like this comment, I suppose - because I've had editors be arbitrary at my writing and I try to be not like them when I'm editing others' work.
